Core entities in Ballista
-------------------------

Ballista revolves around 4 main entities namely: Project, Server, User and Group.

    Project - This is your git project.
    Server - This is a server to which you wish to deploy your code to.
    User - A user is a person who has access to the Ballista interface through which he/she can deploy a project to one or more servers.
    Group - A group consists of many users. A user can belong to multiple groups. Each group can be given access or restricted to deploy/rollback on each server.

1. Projects

Click on the "Add project" in the left menu to add a new project. Or click on the edit icon to the right of each project to edit it. These are the fields that need to be filled in:

    Name - The name of your Git project. Make sure you use the same name as it is in your Git repository.
    Description - Any short description of your project
    Host - Choose if the project is hosted locally or on Github.
    Path to the project repository - This is the local path to the project in your repository or URL to the Github repository. For example: /var/www/git/myapp.git or git@github.com/user/project.git
    Active - Choose whether or not this project is activated in Ballista. Deactivated projects cannot be deployed or rolled back.
    Path to project instance on Server - This is the path where the project will be deployed to on the server. For example: /var/www/apps/myapp

Active/Inactive projects
Clicking on the "green tick" button on the project list display, deactivates a project thereby restricting deploy of that project to any server. Click on the "red stop" button to reactivate the project. This function is available only to the admin user.

Notifications
The settings here will override the global notification settings in the config/settings.php file.
Note that notifications are not automatically sent. A checkbox is displayed on the deploy page which when checked gives you the possibility to send the notification after a deploy.
The subject of the email is configured in config/settings.php file.

    Email address - Comma separated email addresses to whom notifications need to be sent. This will override notification email address in the config/settings.php file.
    Message - The notification message. This will override notification email address in the config/settings.php file.

2. Servers

A server is a physical/virtual machine with a resolvable hostname or IP address which Ballista can connect to deploy projects.
You can have multiple servers configured with Ballista and you can deploy to all servers with one click or you can choose individual servers for each deploy you perform.

Add or edit servers by clicking on the "Add server" button on the left menu.

    Server name - Use any name to identify the server. This will be seen by the users of the system when they deploy to the server.
    IP/hostname - The IP address or hostname of the server.

3. Groups

A group is a categorization of users. This helps to categorize multiple users into different groups. Each group can be assigned permissions to each of your servers.

Add or edit groups by clicking on the "Add group" button on the left menu.

    Group - Name of the group.

Example scenarios

    You setup 2 servers - "Staging" and "Production"
    You then create 2 groups - "Developers" and "Release Managers"
    Give the "Developers" group permission to deploy to the "Staging" server while, the "Release Managers" group is given permission to deploy to "Staging" and "Production" servers.

4. Users

Users are all the people who have access to the Ballista system to use it to deploy projects.
Users have to be assigned to one or more groups as it is the group that determines permission to deploy to the servers.

Add or edit users by clicking on the "Add user" button on the left menu.

    Username - Username of the user. This must be unique and this is what the user uses to log into the system
    Password - Password for the user.
    Firstname - Firstname of the user.
    Lastname - Lastname of the user.
    Email - Email address of the user.
    Active - Whether or not he has access to the system.
    Group - Groups to which he belongs.

Active/Inactive users
Clicking on the "green tick" button on the user list display, deactivates a user thereby restricting him from logging into Ballista. Click on the "red stop" icon to reactivate the user. This function is available only to the admin user.
5. Manage permissions

Permissions can be managed under this section. This is a display of all the projects and the servers defined in the system.

Add or edit a permission by clicking on the "yellow pencil" icon in the server column and project row.

    Project - Name of the project to which this permission is being given.
    Server - Name of the server to which this permission is being given.
    Group - Name of the group which is being given access to deploy the project to that server.

NOTE: A user needs to log out and log back in for his/her permissions to take effect.
